h1. Civic API - API for community data

CivicAPI is a "GeoCouch":http://www.github.com/vmx/couchdb instance populated with open government and other civic data starting with Portland, OR and NYC data through their open data initiatives, but with a goal of hosting as much open government data as users are willing to dump into it for their respective regions. Out of the box CouchDB provides a RESTy JSONP capable API to all of the data.

h2. Project Goals/Features

* Create an easily consumable data resource for developers interested in utilizing civic data
* Host civic data for free, for any regional government open data initiative
* Modify and build upon the city's publicly released data by allowing users to edit and contribute data, and even start whole new datasets
* Allow easy full replication of civic datasets through CouchDB's replication API
* Create tools and examples for developers to use as a jumping off point for creating 'civic apps'

h2. Importing geo data into GeoCouch

p. GeoCouch can store, index and serve GeoJSON. There are awesome tools like @ogr2ogr@ that are capable of converting many different formats into GeoJSON.

p. I wrote a tool called "shp2geocouch":http://github.com/maxogden/shp2geocouch for easily importing Shapefiles into GeoCouch. See my "blog post":http://maxogden.com/#/2010-08-14-loading-shapefiles-into-geocouch.html for a tutorial on this process.

h3. Installation/Getting it Running locally

This is only helpful if you want to play around with a local copy of CivicAPI. Feel free to use http://civicapi.com to host data publicly. 

Super easy. First, get yourself a Couch: 

"http://www.couchone.com/get":http://www.couchone.com/get

Next, clone or fork action:

@git clone git://github.com/maxogden/civicapi.git@
    
Then edit your DB URL in your .couchapprc
    
@cd civicapi@
@open .couchapprc@
    
You should make the @"default"@ URL map to your couch including your username and password. By default, CouchDB is in admin party mode (meaning you dont need a user/pass and every one is an admin) so you can just get rid of the 'admin:admin' in the default URL or add an admin/admin user to your CouchDB instance:

<pre><code>{ "env": { "default": { "db": "http://admin:admin@127.0.0.1:5984/my_couchapp_db" } } }</code></pre>

Then, its easy-peasy:

@couchapp push@
    
(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2010 Max Ogden

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
